Can you see faith?
Turn with me, please, to Mark chapter 2,
and notice what the Bible says about this.
In this account, Jesus is teaching
in a crowded house in Capernaum,
and in Mark 2:2-5 he tells us:
“And so many gathered
“that there was no more room,
not even around the door,
“and he began to speak the word to them.
“And they brought him a paralytic
carried by four men.
“But they could not bring him right to Jesus
because of the crowd,
“so they removed the roof above Jesus,
“and after digging an opening,
“they lowered the stretcher
on which the paralytic was lying.
“When Jesus saw their faith,
he said to the paralytic:
‘Child, your sins are forgiven.’”
So, yes, faith can be seen.
It’s seen in the way we act.
Like other invisible things,
faith is measured by its effects.
In fact, James 2:26 says
that “faith without works is dead.”
The question is, Can others see my faith?
What effect is my faith
producing in me?
Turn with me, please,
to 1 Corinthians chapter 16.
One effect that faith has on people
is that it moves them to expand
their activity in Kingdom service.
Notice how the apostle Paul expressed this
at 1 Corinthians 16:9:
“Because a large door that leads to activity
has been opened to me,
but there are many opposers.”
Paul took advantage
of such opportunities to show his faith.
Has Jehovah opened
the door to activity for you?
In this symposium,
we’re going to discuss five ways
in which a temporary opportunity
leading to great activity
and making disciples might present itself.
This could be in the form
of learning a new language,
moving to where the need is greater,
applying to attend
the School for Kingdom Evangelizers,
assisting with a theocratic building project,
or donating generously
to support the Kingdom work.
Now, why is faith needed
to seize such opportunities,
and what blessings do we receive when we do?
First, why is faith needed
to learn a new language
in order to make disciples?
Turn with me, please, to Zechariah chapter 8
—Zechariah chapter 8.
It takes faith
to discern that current events
are fulfilling Bible prophecy.
It takes faith to understand
how we can act in harmony with God’s purpose
as revealed in that prophecy.
Zechariah 8:22 says:
“And many peoples and mighty nations
“will come to seek
Jehovah of armies in Jerusalem
and to beg for the favor of Jehovah.”
And verse 23 says:
“This is what Jehovah of armies says,
“‘In those days ten men
“‘out of all the languages of the nations
“‘will take hold, yes, they will take
firm hold of the robe of a Jew,
“‘saying: “We want to go with you,
for we have heard
that God is with you people.”’”
“Ten men”
—people who recognize that the only way
to gain Jehovah’s approval
is to associate
with those who already have it.
The “Jew” is also referred to here
as “you people.”
Which people?
Obviously, not the people
who refuse to pronounce God’s name
or those who remove it altogether
from their Bible translations.
No.
This refers to those who worship
Jehovah by name
—spirit-anointed Christians,
“the Israel of God”
referred to at Galatians 6:16.
And because ten
can represent earthly completeness,
the “ten men” represent all men and women
who have the hope of living forever on earth.
Now, notice that they come
not simply from all the nations
but from “all the languages of the nations”
in order to learn Jehovah’s requirements.
Now, how will they hear
the voice of the “Jew” in their language?
That might just be
your door to activity.
Now, some might hesitate
to learn a new language.
Perhaps they hold back because of the time
and energy that are required.
Others feel that they lack the ability.
And while it’s true
that before making any decision
we need to calculate the expense,
the question here is one of faith.
Can the God who gave ability to Bezalel,
who made the sun stand still for Joshua,
and who gave power to Samson
also give you the ability,
time, and energy to help those
who are begging for the favor of Jehovah?
Remember, Matthew 17:20:
“If you have faith
the size of a mustard grain, . . .
nothing will be impossible for you.”
And according to Philippians 2:13,
holy spirit can give us even “the desire”
to preach to those
who speak another language.
Is that spirit drawing you now?
Remember, too, that through his organization,
Jehovah provides much help
for those who are learning a new language.
JW.ORG contains reading material,
audio recordings, and videos
in more languages than any other website.
Then, we have the JW Language  app
and language classes
arranged by the branch office.
When faith motivates us
to make sacrifices to serve Jehovah,
he will help us to succeed
and he will reward us
with many blessings.
For instance, a couple in their 60’s
kept finding Chinese people
who accepted their invitations
to attend congregation meetings.
So they decided to learn Chinese,
and within ten years, they studied
with 112 Chinese people.
OK, but with so many languages,
how do I know
which language to start learning?
Zechariah 8:22,
who is ‘begging for the favor of Jehovah’?
You can learn about the needs in your area
by consulting with the elders
and the circuit overseer.
In the following video, note how one couple
responds to a need in the field.
Oh, honestly, you shouldn’t have.
You’re going to need it.
Gabriel’s leaving to serve where
the need is greater made us feel like we
had missed the chance to expand our ministry.
Why don’t we start now?
We’re not getting any younger.
Yeah.
We could ask the circuit overseer for advice
on his next visit,
but I’m worried he’s going to say
we should . . .
. . . join the new language group.
It’s a big need in our circuit.
We’ve never felt like the right people
to serve in a foreign language.
Brother Lindstrom
shared Zechariah 8:23 with us,
which helped us see how we could have a hand
in helping “men out of all
the languages of the nations”
learn about Jehovah.
Learning was a struggle at first.
But with Jehovah’s help, we made progress
—slowly.
Yes!
You did it!
Even though the language was a challenge,
loving our new family was not.
Oh, um, uhh.
I don’t—I don’t understand.
Say again what you say.
Uhm, uh.
Come.
OK.
Oh, thank—thank you!
It’s true, we aren’t getting any younger.
And that’s why we’re so glad
we took the chance to expand our ministry.
Did you notice how Elliott and Corrine
showed faith and how they were blessed?
They talked to their circuit overseer,
who revealed a big need
in a foreign-language group in their circuit.
He then showed them Zechariah 8:23.
They read that scripture again later,
and they prayed about it together,
and then came
the measurable effect of their faith.
They put forth great efforts to learn.
Then, with humility and courage,
they used their new language skills
at the meetings and in the ministry,
and they were able to help those
who were ‘begging for the favor of Jehovah.’
That’s how it works.
Simple?
No, but if we invest the time and effort
to learn a new language
in order to do more for Jehovah,
we can be confident
that Jehovah will bless us
with a rewarding ministry.
As a couple from Britain said:
“The ministry in the foreign-language field
“is one of the most exciting
we have experienced
during our 40 years of Kingdom service.”
Why did they do it?
Because people who are seeking Jehovah
need to hear his requirements for life
in words they can understand.
During a meeting held in Vietnamese,
a man stood up
and said with tears in his eyes:
“Thank you, thank you for the efforts
“you are making
to learn my difficult language.
“I am so grateful to learn
many wonderful things
from the Bible in my old age.”
After attending a circuit assembly
in his native Albanian,
a man in his 70’s
living in New York City, said:
“This is the best day of my life!”
He made arrangements
that very day to start studying the Bible
with a pioneer who had learned his language,
and within just a few years,
he began serving as a ministerial servant.
These are blessings for exercising faith.
Faith is measured by the way we act.
Could you enter
this door to activity in faith?
Brother Samuel Herd,
a member of the Governing Body,
will now consider the next talk
of this symposium,
“Enter the Door to Activity in Faith
—Move to Where the Need Is Greater.”